docs: Add federated region concept and operations pages. (#24477)
hashicorp/nomad: website/content/docs/operations/federation/index.mdx

---
layout: docs

> page_title: Federated Cluster Operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: Federated cluster operations
```

description: Information on running Nomad federated clusters.
---

> ## Operational Considerations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Operational considerations
```

> ## Operational Considerations

Author: No idea; I did try and hunt for it.

When operating multi-region federated Nomad clusters, the following considerations are important to
keep in mind:

* **Regular snapshots**: Nomad server state can be backed up using the
  [`nomad operator snapshot save`][] and [`nomad operator snapshot agent`][] commands. Performing
  regular backups can expedite disaster recovery and the cadence depends on cluster rates of change
  and your internal SLA’s. Snapshots should also be tested regularly using the
  [`nomad operator snapshot restore`][] command to ensure they work.

* **Local ACL management tokens**: In order to perform federated cluster administration when the
  authoritative region is down, local management tokens are required. It is important to have
  existing “break glass” tokens for each region available.

* **Known paths to creating local ACL tokens**: If the authoritative region fails, creation of
  global ACL tokens will fail. If this happens, having the ability to create local ACL tokens will
  allow you to continue to interact with each available federated region.

> ## FAQ

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Authoritative and federated regions
```

Google indexes headings so changed to be descriptive

> * **Can the authoritative region be deployed with servers only?** Yes, deploying the Nomad
>   authoritative region with servers only (no Nomad clients) will work as expected. It can expedite
>   disaster recovery of the region because restoration does not include objects such as nodes, jobs,
>   or allocations which are large and require compute intensive reconciliation after restoration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Can the authoritative region be deployed with servers only?** Yes, deploying the Nomad
  authoritative region with servers only, without clients, works as expected. This servers-only approach can expedite
  disaster recovery of the region. Restoration does not include objects such as nodes, jobs,
  or allocations, which are large and require compute intensive reconciliation after restoration.
```

That was an awfully long sentence, so I broke it up.

* **Can I migrate the authoritative region to a currently federated region?** It is possible by

>   following the steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  following these steps:
```
We don't use directionals like above, below. It's an accessibility thing.

>   * Update the [`authoritative_region`][] configuration parameter on the desired authoritative
>     region servers.
> 
>   * Restart the server processes in the new authoritative region and ensure all data is present in
>     state as expected. If the network was partitioned as part of the failure of the original
>     authoritative region, writes of replicated objects may not have been successfully replicated to
>     federated regions.
> 
>   * Update the [`authoritative_region`][] configuration parameter on the federated region servers
>     and restart their processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Update the [`authoritative_region`][] configuration parameter on the
    desired authoritative region servers.
  1. Restart the server processes in the new authoritative region and ensure all
    data is present in state as expected. If the network was partitioned as part
    of the failure of the original authoritative region, writes of replicated
    objects may not have been successfully replicated to federated regions.
  1. Update the [`authoritative_region`][] configuration parameter on the
    federated region servers and restart their processes.
```

changed to an ordered list since I assumed the steps should be performed in order
